# CS340

### Programming maintainable, readable, and adaptable code
The first part of me writing code that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable always starts with commenting. Not only does it help other people understand what the code is doing in the first place, but it forces me to understand my work and if I end up taking a break from the project, maybe waiting for another piece to be completed, it acts as reminders for what I was working on because staring down a multi-document project is already daunting enough. Another strategy for developing in this way involves simplicity and consistency. It can be draining looking up the name of an object in a different document because the naming was different than normal, or the method was too complex and now cannot be updated because not even the developer understands what exactly it is doing. 

### Approaching problems in CS
This was a very interesting project for me as I had used virtually none of the tools provided that the client wanted to use, which is absolutely possible when switching careers or teams. Before attempting to work on the problem at hand, it was crucial to first understand what I was doing in the first place and why we were using these tools and methods. From understanding the project at hand, we can then work on separating into more manageable pieces to actually start it rather than brainstorming for hours and having the entirely wrong idea of the overall goals.

### What CS does
This project really does show quite a few concepts and disciplines of Computer Science. In this case, we were working as developers accessing a database, making a few visuals, and adding a filtering sort for specific examples of animals. We could have been working as data analysts tasked with taking databases of current animals in shelter and examples of which animals are good at certain rescues tasked with finding the categories that make an animal a potential search and rescue hero. We even included some user verification with authentication and users with least privilege, something we would be more interested in as database administrators. Each of these can be a branch of computer science and each has played a role in the development of this system.
